# Car Rental Website PRD

### TL;DR

Build a modern, scalable car rental website targeting tourists, local
residents, and business travelers. Users can reserve vehicles, process
payments via Stripe, and provide or browse authentic reviews. The site
is built with Next.js, MongoDB, Stripe, and aligns with a specific Figma
design—styled using Tailwind CSS.

---

## Goals

### Business Goals

- Increase total monthly car bookings by 30% within the first six
  months.

- Achieve a user repeat booking rate of at least 20% by year-end.

- Maintain an average booking completion time (from landing to payment)
  under 5 minutes.

- Grow verified user registrations to 5,000+ within the first 12 months.

- Reduce manual booking management time by 50% through robust admin
  features.

### User Goals

- Enable fast, intuitive booking of cars with transparent pricing and
  minimal friction.

- Access to real, verified user reviews to inform car choice.

- Secure, seamless online payment and booking confirmation experience.

- Effortlessly browse an up-to-date car catalog with advanced filters
  (type, location, price).

- Manage bookings, personal info, and payment methods through a
  personalized dashboard.

### Non-Goals

- No peer-to-peer car rentals—this is strictly for a managed company
  fleet.

- Exclude multilingual or multi-currency support for the initial MVP.

- No mobile app at launch—focus is web only.

---

## User Stories

**Personas:**

### Tourist

- As a tourist, I want to search for available cars near my hotel, so
  that I can easily arrange transportation during my trip.

- As a tourist, I want to see genuine user reviews before booking, so
  that I feel confident about my choice.

- As a tourist, I want to quickly pay online and get immediate booking
  confirmation, so that I can plan the rest of my itinerary.

### Local Resident

- As a local resident, I want to book a car for a weekend getaway, so
  that I have flexible travel options without owning a car.

- As a local resident, I want to save my preferred cars and payment
  info, so that repeat bookings are faster.

### Business Traveler

- As a business traveler, I want to filter for business-class vehicles,
  so that the car matches my professional needs.

- As a business traveler, I want an easy invoice download after payment,
  so that I can file work expenses efficiently.

- As a business traveler, I want to book a car on behalf of my
  colleagues, so that my team travels smoothly.

### Admin

- As an admin, I want to add or remove cars from the catalog, so that
  the fleet stays accurate and current.

- As an admin, I want to view booking analytics, so that I can optimize
  fleet operations.

- As an admin, I want to approve, hide, or remove user reviews, so that
  quality is maintained.

---

## Functional Requirements

- **Reservation System** (High)

  - Real-time availability checks, booking calendar, user notifications,
    manage/edit/cancel reservations.

- **Payments (Stripe Integration)** (High)

  - Secure one-time payment and refund flows, handle failed payments,
    real-time booking confirmation, downloadable invoices.

- **Car Catalog** (High)

  - Browseable car listings with images, filters (type, price, ratings,
    location), up-to-date availability.

- **User Authentication** (High)

  - NextAuth.js-based authentication with dedicated login/register pages
  - Email-based signup/login with credentials provider
  - Password reset, persistent sessions, role-based access (user/admin)
  - Session-based redirection and form validation
  - OAuth strategies support (future expansion)

- **Reviews System** (Medium)

  - Users can leave and browse reviews; admin moderation tools.

- **Admin Controls** (Medium)

  - Fleet management dashboard (add/edit/remove cars, manage bookings,
    oversee reviews), usage analytics.

- **Integrations / Design Notes**

  - Frontend uses Next.js with Tailwind CSS, styled to Figma spec.

  - Responsive layouts, accessibility standards, dark mode support.

---

## User Experience

**Entry Point & First-Time User Experience**

- Users land on an attractive, Figma-inspired homepage with a prominent
  search bar and featured deals.

- Clear call-to-action: "Find a Car"—leads to guided search by dates,
  location, car type.

- First-time users are prompted to create an account before booking,
  with simple, email-first registration.

- Onboarding hints highlight how to search, filter, and compare cars.

**Core Experience**

- **Step 1:** User searches by location, date, and preferences.

  - Fast, auto-suggested locations and car models.

  - UI shows instant feedback for no availability or best-match options.

- **Step 2:** User browses matching cars.

  - Users view high-res images, specs, and recent reviews.

  - Option to sort/filter: type, price, ratings, amenities.

- **Step 3:** User selects a car and starts booking.

  - Pricing breakdown, terms, and review snippet shown pre-checkout.

  - Prominent “Book Now” button advances the flow.

- **Step 4:** Account login/creation (if not already signed in).

  - One-time email verification before proceeding.

- **Step 5:** Payment checkout (Stripe).

  - Enter card, confirm details, pay.

  - On success: immediate confirmation page with booking details and
    email receipt.

  - Invoice/download options for business users.

- **Step 6:** Post-booking actions.

  - Dashboard access to manage reservation, cancel, or check-in/out.

  - Prompt to leave a review after completed bookings.

**Advanced Features & Edge Cases**

- Failed payment flow: Re-attempt, update card, user messaging for
  issues.

- No available cars: Suggest alternative dates/locations, notify user
  for future availability.

- Admin-only screens for fleet/review management.

- Secure session timeouts; clear error messaging throughout.

- Manual override/rescue (admin) for problem bookings.

**UI/UX Highlights**

- Figma-based visual fidelity (<a
  href="https://www.figma.com/design/1zRit2Y71mG9wO32pHg8dC/Car-Rent-Website-Design---Pickolab-Studio--Community-?node-id=1-5&amp;p=f&amp;t=diOOCL6VfbaVeTBd-0"
  class="tiptap-link" target="_blank"
  rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow">see provided link</a>), strictly
  matched for all primary flows.

- Fully responsive: works on laptops, tablets, and mobile browsers.

- Tailwind CSS for utility-first, maintainable style; consistent
  component use.

- Easy navigation: minimal clicks to book, clear back/forward.

- High accessibility: proper contrast, labeled form inputs, keyboard
  navigation, alt text.

- Optional dark mode for improved night access.

- Friendly, concise in-app messages and tooltips.

---

## Narrative

Mia, a business traveler arriving in a new city, lands on our car rental
website from an airport Wi-Fi ad. Within a minute, she’s searching for
available business-class vehicles close to her hotel. The search process
is seamless—car images, up-to-date features, and honest user reviews
help her quickly narrow down her choice. Seeing a highly-rated sedan
that fits her needs, Mia registers in a few clicks, selects her
preferred dates, and proceeds directly to the secure Stripe checkout.
Payment is fast, and her receipt is immediately available for expense
reporting.

Minutes later, Mia receives an app notification and a confirmation email
detailing her booking and check-in instructions. With the intuitive
dashboard, she can manage her reservation, update travel dates, or even
add extra insurance as needed. When her trip wraps up, she’s prompted to
review the service, enriching the community for the next cohort of
users.

Behind the scenes, an admin reviews her feedback and gains insights via
analytics, identifying popular car models and booking trends. The site
design mirrors premium global standards—responsive, clear, and
accessible—ensuring every type of user, from the frequent local renter
to the one-off tourist, feels in control. For Mia, the experience is
frictionless; for the business, it’s a measurable win in both efficiency
and customer loyalty.

---

## Success Metrics

### User-Centric Metrics

- Number of new user registrations per month.

- Repeat booking rate (users making ≥2 bookings).

- Average journey completion time (landing to paid booking).

- Average user rating for post-booking satisfaction (1–5 scale).

### Business Metrics

- Monthly total bookings and revenue via Stripe.

- Booking conversion rate from search to payment.

- Average value per booking (ARPU).

### Technical Metrics

- Average page load time \<2.5 seconds.

- Booking system uptime ≥ 99.9%.

- Payment error rate \<1%.

### Tracking Plan

- Track events: Homepage visits, searches, car detail views, user
  registrations, bookings started, completed payments, review
  submissions.

- Monitor: payment failures, booking cancellations, admin interventions,
  user feedback scores.

---

## Technical Considerations

### Technical Needs

- **Frontend:** Next.js for server-rendered React, styled via Tailwind
  CSS, strictly matching Figma design.

- **Backend:** Next.js API layer, integrated with MongoDB for data
  storage.

- **APIs:** RESTful endpoints for auth, reservations, cars, reviews, and
  Stripe payment integration.

- **Admin:** Dedicated secured admin interface for fleet and review
  moderation.

### Integration Points

- **Stripe:** Payment, refunds, and invoice APIs.

- **MongoDB:** Stores user, booking, car, and review data.

- **Figma:** Shared design system and handoff for pixel-perfect UI
  build.

### Data Storage & Privacy

- All sensitive data (user info, payment methods) stored securely, with
  encryption at rest and in transit.

- Stripe handles all PCI-compliant payment flows.

- User consent and privacy policy visible at registration.

- GDPR-compliant data retention and deletion tools for user data
  requests.

### Scalability & Performance

- Anticipate thousands of concurrent users; use stateless API
  architecture.

- MongoDB sharding and optimized queries for scale.

- Frontend server-side rendering for SEO and initial load speed.

### Potential Challenges

- Handling edge cases around simultaneous bookings and car availability
  (race conditions).

- Ensuring Stripe integration is error-free for all payment scenarios.

- Avoiding data leaks in user reviews and admin tools.

- Maintaining Figma design consistency as components grow.

---

## Milestones & Sequencing

### Project Estimate

- Small Team Project: 2–4 weeks to launch MVP.

### Team Size & Composition

- Core Team: 2–3 people

  - 1 Fullstack Engineer (Next.js, Node.js, MongoDB, Stripe)

  - 1 Designer (Figma/Tailwind, QA)

  - 1 Product/QA Lead (can be part-time)

### Suggested Phases

**Phase 1: Core MVP Launch (2 weeks)**

- Deliverables: Homepage, car catalog, basic search/filter,
  registration/login, booking flow, Stripe payment integration,
  responsive layout matching Figma.

- Responsible: Fullstack engineer + designer.

- Dependencies: Figma design finalized, Stripe account set up.

**Phase 2: Reviews & Admin Panel (1 week)**

- Deliverables: User reviews (write/browse), admin dashboard for
  car/review/booking management.

- Responsible: Engineer + designer.

- Dependencies: Finished Phase 1.

**Phase 3: UX Polish & Scalability (1 week)**

- Deliverables: UX polish, accessibility audit, dark mode, error
  handling, advanced edge cases, initial analytics/tracking.

- Responsible: Engineer + product/QA lead.

- Dependencies: Core and admin features complete.

---
